
# Cryptography

## symmetric-key cryptography

- The idea is simply that we encrypt data using a password. So we take some data, we take a password, we put it into an algorithm, and what we get back is some encrypted data that can't be read.
- We can then later come back and decrypt that data by taking the same password, putting it into an algorithm with our encrypted data, and what we get back is something that is decrypted, or readable.
- So the name symmetric key is a fancy way of saying that it uses the same key for both, both for encryption and for decryption.And our key is the password, and it works very much like a key would on a normal lock.
- In fact, we can think of symmetric-key cryptography as being a box that we can lock. We can open it up, we can put data inside of it, and then we can close it and lock it with the key. Then it's encrypted and it stays locked and the only way to unlock it is by using that same key to open the door and get the data back out. That's symmetric-key cryptography.

## public-key cryptography

- also known as **asymmetric-key cryptography**
- We don't have symmetric keys, we have asymmetric keys. That is, they're not the same anymore.
- Instead, we have a pair of mathematically linked numbers. These are numbers the are derived from multiplying prime numbers together. You don't need to worry about the mechanics of how that happens, just know that at the end you end up with two numbers that are linked together and we refer to them as the public key and the private key.

- Let's take that locked box example again. Let's imagine now that we have a box with two locks on it. On one side we have a lock for the public key, on the other side is a lock for the private key. Now the public side is unlocked. We can open it and the public can put a piece of data inside, and then they can lock it using our public key. Once it's locked, even another public key can't be used to open it again. Now it stays locked and we can submit it, even over the Internet. It's encrypted data that's completely safe. At that point, the person receiving the data, can use the private key that they have to unlock the private side of the box, and retrieve the data and read it. That's how public-key cryptography works

## public key vs private key: 

- the private key should always be kept secret and secure. It belongs to you, and you alone.
- 
- But the public key can be shared widely. We don't care who has it. We can send it in our emails. We can post it on the Internet. We can share it with the world. 
- The advantage of having two linked keys that are not the same, is that then **data can be encrypted by the public, using our public key that's widely available**, and **it can only be decrypted using our private key, which only we have.**
- So it allows the public, generally, to be able to send us private messages that other people can't read.

