
# Handshakes

- This is also referred to as **SSL or TLS handshakes**, both of those communication protocols use it.
- The basic idea is that we're going to use public-key cryptography in order to communicate.

## How Handshakes work? 

- First, a browser is gonna send a request to a secure server.
- The server's gonna say hey, I see you have a secure request, let me send you back my SSL certificate, and I'm gonna send you back my public key and other data about my identity.
- The browser's gonna take a look at that and it's gonna decide whether that public key is something that it can trust. And it's gonna do that by confirming that the certificate is valid. 
- There are a number of different ways that it can confirm validity of Certificate. The simplest is it can just look and see if the expiration data has passed yet, whether the certificate is still in its valid date range. It can also look at who issued the certificate, to see if that's someone that we trust.
- If the browser decides that this is something that we can trust, then it can use that public key to encrypt a very long password and send it to the server.
- The server and the browser now both possess the same password. That's the beauty of public-key cryptography.
- Now, both the server and the browser can switch over and use symmetric-key cryptography, using that shared password to encrypt all future communications.


## Why switch over to symmetric-key cryptography when we were doing so well with the public-key cryptography?

- it's because it allows us to have the benefits of both technologies. Public-key cryptography is great for being able to communicate private communication fully in public, but the problem is that the algorithms that do that are quite slow. 
- Symmetric-key cryptography, on the other hand, can be difficult to send that key publicly, which makes it hard to be able to share data anonymously over the Internet, but once we have a shared key and we have a password that we can both work with, then it's very fast.
- **So we use public key in order to swap a password, and then we switch over to symmetric key in order to get the speed advantage.**
- the SSL certificate certifies the ownership of the public key, the public key is used to exchange a password, in public or over the Internet, and then that password is used to encrypt all data between the browser and the server from then on.
- One additional advantage is the fact that all of the passwords that are used for this encryption between the browser and the server are gonna be temporary and not reused.
- It's a one-time password, just used for this one conversation that's happening between the browser and the server.
- Other browsers are using a different password, and in the future, if we try and contact the server again, we'll get a new password, because we'll go through that same handshake process again. So the passwords are temporary, and that allows us to help keep that exchange data secret, as well.