
# Understanding Apache Configuration and Directives:

All Directives listed [here](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/directives.html)

- Apache HTTP Server is configured by placing directives in plain text configuration files
- A directive is an instruction telling Apache what to do. 
- Most directives are followed by an argument, which is the data passed to the directive.


- **Configuration and logfile names:** If the filenames you specify for many of the server's control files begin with "/" (or "drive:/" for Win32), the server will use that explicit path.  If the filenames do *not* begin with "/", the value of ServerRoot is prepended -- so 'log/access_log' with ServerRoot set to '/www' will be interpreted by the server as '/www/log/access_log', where as '/log/access_log' will be interpreted as '/log/access_log'.


- **ServerRoot**: The top of the directory tree under which the server's  configuration, error, and log files are kept. **Do not add a slash at the end of the directory path**
```text
ServerRoot "/etc/httpd"

```
 - **Listen** - Allows you to bind Apache to specific IP addresses and/or ports, instead of the default.
```text
#Listen 12.34.56.78:80
Listen 80
```

- **Dynamic Shared Objects/ External Modules** : To be able to use the functionality of a module which was built as a DSO you have to place corresponding `LoadModule' lines at this location so the directives contained in it are actually available _before_ they are used.
```text
# Example:
# LoadModule foo_module modules/mod_foo.so
#
Include conf.modules.d/*.conf

```

- User/Groups:  If you wish httpd to run as a different user or group, you must run  httpd as root initially and it will switch.

```text
User apache
Group apache

```

- '**Main' server configuration** - The directives in this section set up the values used by the 'main' server, which responds to any requests that aren't handled by a  <VirtualHost> definition.  These values also provide defaults for any <VirtualHost> containers you may define later in the file.

**All of these directives may appear inside <VirtualHost> containers, in which case these default settings will be overridden for the virtual host being defined.**


- **ServerAdmin**: Your address, where problems with the server should be  e-mailed.
```text
ServerAdmin root@localhost

```

- The values of variables defined with the **Define** of or shell environment variables can be used in configuration file lines using the syntax **${VAR}**. If "VAR" is the name of a valid variable, the value of that variable is substituted into that spot in the configuration file line, and processing continues as if that text were found directly in the configuration file.

- **ServerName** - ServerName gives the name and port that the server uses to identify itself. If your host doesn't have a registered DNS name, enter its IP address here.

```text
#ServerName www.example.com:80

```

- **Deny access to the entirety of your server's filesystem**.You must explicitly permit access to web content directories in other <Directory> blocks below.
```text
<Directory />
    AllowOverride none
    Require all denied
</Directory>

```

- **Note that from this point forward you must specifically allow particular features to be enabled - so if something's not working as you might expect, make sure that you have specifically enabled it below.** 

- **DocumentRoot**:  **The directory out of which you will serve your documents.** By default, all requests are taken from this directory, but symbolic links and aliases may be used to point to other locations.


```text
DocumentRoot "/var/www/html"

```
- Relax acess to content within /var/www
```text
<Directory "/var/www">
    AllowOverride None
    # Allow open access:
    Require all granted
</Directory>

```

- # Further relax access to the default document root:

Do refer for options [here]( http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/core.html#options)
```text
<Directory "/var/www/html">
    Options Indexes FollowSymLinks    
    # check for options above 
    AllowOverride None  
    #AllowOverride controls what directives may be placed in .htaccess files  
    Require all granted 
    # Controls who can get stuff from this server.
</Directory>

```

- **DirectoryIndex**: sets the file that Apache will serve if a directory is requested
```text
<IfModule dir_module>
    DirectoryIndex index.html
</IfModule>
```

- **.htaccess**: Intended to provide security for directories. The following lines prevent .htaccess and .htpasswd files from being viewed by Web clients.  In general .htaccess files are not recommended as a method of configuration due to the security and performance problems. It's a best practice to put all of your configuration in the central server configuration.
```text
<Files ".ht*">
    Require all denied
</Files>

```

- **ErrorLog**: The location of the error log file. If you do not specify an ErrorLog directive within a <VirtualHost>
  container, error messages relating to that virtual host will be logged here.  If you *do* define an error logfile for a <VirtualHost> container, that host's errors will be logged there and not here.

```text
ErrorLog "logs/error_log"
```

- **LogLevel**: Control the number of messages logged to the error_log. Possible values include: debug, info, notice, warn, error, crit, alert, emerg.

```text
LogLevel warn
```

- **"/var/www/cgi-bin"** should be changed to whatever your ScriptAliased  CGI directory exists, if you have that configured.
```text
<Directory "/var/www/cgi-bin">
    AllowOverride None
    Options None
    Require all granted
</Directory>
```












