
# apache log files: 

Reference [here](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/logs.html)

Apache provides a complete logging system which can be incredibly useful for a number of purposes. Three of the most common include, 
- finding problems with a site, such as a server or authentication errors, 
- analyzing traffic patterns including who accessed what.
- Finally, log files can be used for detecting malicious activity, like brute force attacks or vulnerability scans.



In general, log files can be a single monolithic file, a file that is rotated or started fresh on a regular basis with archives made. Or even piped directly to another program

## Common log files:

- **error_log** : The most important log file is the error log which stores diagnostic information when something goes wrong and records any errors found when responding to a request. Error log should be the very first place to look when there's a problem.


- **access_log** : The other common log file is the access log which records all requests for access to the server.


**Analysis of these logs is up to the user, as Apache doesn't include any mechanism for interacting other than writing.**


The language's error log files can be in the same directory as the Apache error log. But they're in a completely different format than the Apache log files and can't be combined, nor should they. Therefore, you won't find PHP error logs in the Apache log files. 

## log file location:

- go to  HTTPD_ROOT="/etc/httpd" , you can find same via httpd -V command. 
```text
[root@nitin-redhat-8 logs]# ll
total 20
-rw-r--r--. 1 root root  4071 Dec 19 17:43 access_log
-rw-r--r--. 1 root root 12752 Dec 19 17:38 error_log
[root@nitin-redhat-8 logs]# pwd
/etc/httpd/logs

```

## log configuration in httpd.conf unless overridden
```text
[root@nitin-redhat-8 conf]# grep -v '#' httpd.conf | grep -i log
ErrorLog "logs/error_log"
LogLevel warn
<IfModule log_config_module>
    LogFormat "%h %l %u %t \"%r\" %>s %b \"%{Referer}i\" \"%{User-Agent}i\"" combined
    LogFormat "%h %l %u %t \"%r\" %>s %b" common
    <IfModule logio_module>
      LogFormat "%h %l %u %t \"%r\" %>s %b \"%{Referer}i\" \"%{User-Agent}i\" %I %O" combinedio
    CustomLog "logs/access_log" combined

```
- The first, **ErrorLog**, defines the name and location. The file created is typically called error log or error.log.
- The next directive is **LogLevel**, which controls the verbosity, or detail, of the error logs. LogLevels are defined in the Apache documentation. At high level the default is warn but info can be a bit more verbose. The least verbose level is emergency which only logs when the system is unusable
- The name of the access log directive is called **CustomLog**