
# Kerberos

[Reference- Safari Book](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/kerberos-the-definitive/0596004036/dedication.htmlc)


## Why Kerberos Needed? 

- **2 issues with password today:** 
  - humans can't remember so many of them As a general rule, as the number of passwords goes up, the quality of each password decreases.
  - passwords are sent in clear text over the network
- To overcome this authentication issues in distributed networks, **Kerberos was developed by MIT in 1983**

## What is Kerberos?

- **Microsoft has upgraded its default auth protocol to Kerberos which provides stronger auth protocol for client/server applications than NTLM**



**Definition**: The full definition of what Kerberos provides is a secure, single-sign-on, trusted, third-party mutual authentication service.

- Kerberos is a network authentication system that can help solve above two issues. 
  - It reduces the number of passwords each user has to memorize to use an entire network to one—the Kerberos password
  - Kerberos incorporates encryption and message integrity to solve the second issue, ensuring that sensitive authentication data is never sent over the network in the clear.


- Basically Kerberos is a authentication protocol.
- so if sender is sending message to receiver then  either one or both have to be authenticated. So here kerberos helps with authentication of sender as well as receiver.
- Once authenticated, communication happens seamlessly
- 
## Features:

- **Secure**
  - Kerberos is secure since it never transmits passwords over the network in the clear text. 
  - **Kerberos is unique in its use of tickets , time-limited cryptographic messages that prove a user’s identity to a given server without sending passwords over the network or caching passwords on the local user’s hard disk.**

- **Single-sign-on**
  - Single-sign-on means that end users only need to log in once to access all network resources that support Kerberos. 
  - **Once a user has authenticated to Kerberos at the start of her login session, her credentials are transparently passed to every other resource she accesses during the day.**

- **Trusted third-party**
- Trusted third-party refers to the fact that Kerberos works through a centralized authentication server that all systems in the network inherently trust. 
- A**ll authentication requests are routed through the centralized Kerberos server.**

- **Mutual authentication:**
  - Mutual authentication ensures that not only is the person behind the keyboard who he claims to be, but also proves that the server he is communicating with is who it claims to be.
  - **Mutual authentication protects the confidentiality of sensitive information by ensuring that the service the user is communicating with is genuine.**

 

- **Microsoft**, through its adoption of the latest Kerberos protocol as the preferred authentication mechanism in its Active Directory, has single-handedly driven the use of Kerberos into the majority of the operating-system market that it controls. 

- Thanks to the openness of Kerberos, organizations now can establish cross-platform, single sign-on network environments, giving an end-user one set of credentials that will provide him access to all network resources, regardless of platform or operating system. 

