
# Pieces of Puzzle

- Kerberos is a complex system, with many parts. It requires the proper functioning of many separate software components, and with each comes a set of terms and concepts that underlie the entire system
- Authentication, authorization, and auditing are a crucial part of any network security scheme, yet the distinction between them is often unclear.

## Three A's
### Authentication:
- authentication is the process of verifying the identity of a particular user.
- This information can fall into one or more of **three categories: what he knows, what he has, or what he is. These categories are referred to as factors**
- The Kerberos protocol itself does not specify which authentication factors must be used. 
- Although most implementations use a password-based system, there are implementations, such as the one present in Microsoft’s Windows 2000 and above, which allow Kerberos login tied to the use smart cards.

### Authorization:
- Authorization refers to granting or denying access to specific resources based on the requesting user’s identity.
- Authorization is usually performed through access control lists, which associate user identities with specific rights. 
- Authorization includes information such as a user’s group membership, user policies, and other information that determines what level of access that user has to computer or network resources.
- Authorization ceases to work if the authentication method can’t be trusted.
### Auditing:
- Auditing takes the results from authentication and authorization and records these results into an audit log.  
- While authentication and authorization are preventative systems in which unauthorized access is prevented, auditing is a reactive system.  


## CONFUSING AUTHENTICATION, AUTHORIZATION, AND DIRECTORIES
- Many authentication systems also include authorization functions, so these concepts can be easily confused with each other.
- For example, the traditional Unix /etc/passwd file contains both authentication and authorization data. To make matters worse, it also functions as a directory! 
- Kerberos and other authentication mechanism doesn't replace directories such as unix /etc/passwd file, NIS or LDAP
- Directories can be as simple as a text file, such as the /etc/passwd and /etc/group files on traditional Unix systems, which list the active user accounts and their group permissions. **Or a directory can be a complex LDAP directory structure, such as Microsoft’s Active Directory.**
- Directories can contain authentication data. Authenticating “against” a directory takes two forms: a client machine can contact a directory, obtain the hashed version of the user’s password, hash the password given by the user, and compare the two. This method is used by NIS etc.
- The other form, employed by most LDAP authentication mechanisms, is to attempt to bind to the LDAP directory using the credentials that the user provided. If the user is granted access to the directory, the authentication is successful. The pam_ldap PAM module uses this latter method to authenticate against an LDAP directory.
- Now, using Kerberos grants single-signon access to all network resources without requiring client to cache the password, kerberos tickets are cryptographic messages which are valid for limited time, users password are never sent in clear text over network, and it provides wide varierty of protocol for authentication. 
- Therefore, while a directory may contain authentication information (for example, Microsoft’s Active Directory stores the Kerberos database in its LDAP store), it is preferable to use Kerberos to perform authentication rather than using the directory for authentication directly.

## Encryption
- The modern word cryptography is derived from two ancient Greek words, cryptos, which means hidden or secret, and graphein, or writing. 
- Kerberos uses cryptography to provide encryption and decryption of its messages over the network
- There are many different ways of encrypting data. 
- The most widely supported encryption type is DES, but work is underway to replace it with Triple DES and the new Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)
- Another widely used encryption type is the RC4 algorithm, which is used primarily in Microsoft’s implementation of Kerberos.

## Message Integrity
- While encryption provides privacy, message integrity ensures the recipient that the message was not tampered with during transit. 
- Hashes works as popular message integrity algos
- Hashes work as mathematical one-way functions. They take an input message that is arbitrarily long, run it through a mathematical algorithm, and output a fixed size (typically 64-256 bits) message that represents the input. The idea behind the hash function is that while it is easy to calculate the hash output for a given input, it is mathematically hard to go the opposite way and derive an input that produces the same output, hence their “one-way” nature.