
# Kerberos Terminologies


## Realms, Principals, and Instances

- **Every entity contained within a Kerberos installation, including individual users, computers, and services running on servers, has a principal associated with it.**
 
- Principals are globally unique names. To accomplish this, the principal is divided into a hierarchical structure.
- **Every principal starts with a username or service name**
- The username or service name is then **followed by an optional instance**
- The username and optional instance, taken together, form a unique identity within a given realm
- Each Kerberos installation defines an administrative realm of control that is distinct from every other Kerberos installation. Kerberos defines this as the realm name 
  - By convention, the Kerberos realm for a given DNS domain is the domain converted to uppercase. So, for example, Wedgie International, which owns the domain name wedgie.org, would create a Kerberos realm for its users named WEDGIE.ORG.

- Example Kerberos Principal:
  - jdoe@IT.WEDGIE.ORG
  - This principal represents the username jdoe, with no instance, and a realm of IT.WEDGIE.ORG.

## Service and host principals
- Users aren’t the only ones assigned principals in a Kerberos realm; hosts and servers offering Kerberos services also have principals
- Since, in Kerberos, each endpoint of a connection can request mutual authentication, both endpoints require an identity and a key.
- Therefore, every service and host that a user can connect to through Kerberos authentication requires a service principal.
- Services principals are slightly different than user principals. The username component in a service principal is the name of the service that the principal represents
- In the case of a host principal, the username is “host.” To distinguish service principals for the same service but on different hostnames, the instance component contains the hostname of the machine the service principal is located on. **Services that use Kerberos authentication are said to be **Kerberized**** .
- In addition to host and service principals, the Kerberos system itself contains several principals. The most important of these “special” principals is the krbtgt principal


### Kerberos 4 principals
- Kerberos 4 principals are made up of three components: the username, an optional instance, and the realm.
- The username and instance are separated by a period, and the username and instance are separated from the realm by an at symbol (@).
- example: jdoe.admin@IT.WEDGIE.ORG
  - here the principal contains username, instance( called admin) and a realm.

- the forms that a Kerberos 4 principal can take are:
```text
user[.instance]@REALM
service.hostname@REALM
```

### Kerberos 5 principals

- Kerberos 5 principals contain the same basic components as a Kerberos 4 principal. Instead of a single instance component, however, Kerberos 5 principals can contain several sub-instance components.
- Also, instead of using a dot to separate the username and instance components, Kerberos 5 uses a forward slash.
- example: jdoe/admin@IT.WEDGIE.ORG
  - This example is equivalent to the first Kerberos 4 example, showing the format of John Doe’s principal with an admin instance.

- **Note: important**
  - Kerberos 5 host and service principals include the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of the host that the service is installed on. By embedding the FQDN in the principal, Kerberos 5 allows administrators to have more than one host with the same hostname, but with different domain components located in the same realm.
  - example: host/unixsvr.it.wedgie.org@IT.WEDGIE.ORG

- Kerberos 5 principals have the following format:
  - In this format, there is one required component, followed by any number of optional components, separated by forward slashes
  - Following the components is the realm name, which is separated from the components with an at sign (@), just as in Kerberos 4.
```text
component[/component][/component]...@REALM

following formats are popular for Kerb5
username[/instance]@REALM
service/fully-qualified-domain-name@REALM
```

## Keys, Salts, and Passwords
- all secret keys are shared between at least two parties, the end user or service and the Key Distribution Center.
- Generally speaking, salt is a sequence of characters that is added to a password before hashing it to make it more unique
- For Kerberos 5, the default salt is the realm name.

## The Key Distribution Center
- The KDC consists of three logical components: a database of all principals and their associated encryption keys, the Authentication Server, and the Ticket Granting Server.
- In a given Kerberos realm, there must be at least one KDC.
- it is strongly recommended that each KDC be a separate physical machine
- Since all of the crucial data, including the secrets for every principal in your realm, is located on every KDC in the network, it is critical that those servers be as secure as possible.
- Each Key Distribution Center contains a database of all of the principals contained in the realm, as well as their associated secrets. Most KDC software also stores additional information for each principal in this database, such as password lifetimes, last password change, and more. 
- Windows 2000 and 2003 keep this database in the Active Directory, its LDAP store
- Since a Kerberos realm can contain multiple KDC machines, the database on each KDC must be kept in synchronization to ensure unified authentication

### The Authentication Server

- The Authentication Server (AS) issues an encrypted Ticket Granting Ticket (also known as a TGT) to clients who wish to “log in” to the Kerberos realm.
- The client does not have to prove its identity to the KDC; instead, the TGT that is sent back to the client is encrypted in the user’s password. Since only the user and the KDC know the user’s password, when the login process attempts to decrypt the ticket using the password supplied by the user, only the correct password will correctly decrypt the ticket. If an incorrect password is used, the ticket will decrypt into garbage, and the user is prompted to try again.
- The TGT returned by the Authentication Server can then be used, once decrypted by the client, to request individual service tickets.
- The TGT is the crucial piece that eliminates the requirement for a user to retype their password for each subsequent service they contact.
### The Ticket Granting Server
- Not to be confused with the Ticket Granting Ticket that we briefly discussed in the last section, the Ticket Granting Server (TGS) issues individual service tickets to clients as they request them
- . The Ticket Granting Server takes in two pieces of data from the client: a ticket request that includes the principal name representing the service the client wishes to contact, and a Ticket Granting Ticket that has been issued by the Authentication Server
- The TGS verifies the TGT is valid by checking to ensure that it is encrypted with the Kerberos server’s TGT key, and then issues the user the service ticket he requested.

## Tickets
- Kerberos introduces the concept of tickets 
- Conceptually, a Kerberos ticket is an encrypted data structure issued by the Key Distribution Center that **includes a shared encryption key that is unique for each session, and ticket flags** that indicate, for example, if the ticket can be forwarded to another service, along with other fields. 
- Tickets serve two purposes: to confirm identity of the end participants and to establish a short-lived encryption key that both parties can share for secure communication (called the session key)
- The best way to think about tickets is as a license (issued by the KDC) that confirms your identity.
- Just like a license in the real world, each ticket issued by Kerberos includes data about you, how long the license (or ticket) is valid, and restrictions on its use
- **The major fields that Kerberos includes in every ticket are:**
  - The requesting principal name (the user’s principal)
  - The service’s principal name 
  - When the ticket becomes valid, and when the ticket expires 
  - A list of IP addresses the ticket can be used from 
  - A shared secret encryption key (“session” key) for user/application communication

- Some of these fields are filled in by the KDC; for example, the KDC enforces a maximum ticket lifetime, and the KDC generates a unique session key each time it issues a ticket. The other fields are filled in by the client and passed to the KDC when it makes a ticket request.
- Tickets are relatively short-lived. A typical maximum lifetime for a Kerberos ticket is 10-24 hours

## The ticket (or credential) cache
- Now that we have all of these tickets, where do we put them? 
- The original Kerberos implementation written by MIT uses a file-based credential cache. That is, when you log into Kerberos, and as you are issued tickets for Kerberized services, all of the tickets are stored in a file.
- This method was chosen because it is the most portable; every platform has a filesystem, and it is easy to read and write to files.
- However, this method is inflexible and insecure. 
- Both the Microsoft and Apple implementations of Kerberos include a memory-based credential cache that ensures that credentials are kept in memory and destroyed upon the termination of the login session.
- No matter where the credential cache is stored, it still contains the same information: a user principal, and a set of service tickets that the user has obtained throughout their login session
- example:
```text
$ klist
Ticket cache: FILE:/tmp/krb5cc_502_auJKaJ
Default principal: jgarman@WEDGIE.ORG

Valid starting     Expires            Service principal
09/10/02 01:48:12  09/10/02 11:48:12  krbtgt/WEDGIE.ORG@WEDGIE.ORG
09/10/02 01:48:14  09/10/02 11:48:12  host/cfs.wedgie.org@WEDGIE.ORG
09/10/02 04:20:42  09/10/02 11:48:12  host/web.wedgie.org@WEDGIE.ORG
```
- In this example, the credential cache for the user principal of jgarman@WEDGIE.ORG is stored in the file /tmp/krb5cc_502_auJKaJ. Credential caches can only be associated with one user principal at a time; if I wanted to access services with a principal of jgarman/admin@WEDGIE.ORG instead, I would have to destroy my current tickets and re-login to Kerberos as jgarman/admin@WEDGIE.ORG.


# Putting the Pieces Together
- Inside the credential cache, I have obtained an initial Ticket Granting Ticket through the Authentication Server (this is the first ticket out of three).
- By logging into this system, the system created this credential cache and obtained a TGT for me. 
- During my log in session, I also logged into a host called cfs.wedgie.org, which has a Kerberized telnet daemon running on it
- Because I was using Kerberos authentication, I was able to log into cfs without typing a password;
- Because I was using Kerberos authentication, I was able to log into cfs without typing a password; instead, my telnet client obtained a service principal from the Ticket Granting Server, and used that ticket to contact the Kerberized telnet on cfs. Later, I did the same, except this time I logged into web.wedgie.org.
- During this time, after logging in to three machines (including my initial authentication to Kerberos), I have only typed in my password once. The Kerberos software requested, generated, and sent tickets on my behalf as necessary to transparently authenticate me to the other machines as I accessed them