
# Apache Structure: 

## RHEL8:

### apachectl  -> following actions can be used with it: 

[Reference](https://www.commandlinux.com/man-page/man8/apachectl.8.html)

- **start**: it starts the parent Apache web server and spawns the child processes.
- **status**: what apache is doing at given time 
- **stop**: the parent tells all the children to shut down right now, no matter what they're doing, and then the parent shuts down as well. If someone's getting a page served when the service is shut down, the connection will terminate and the page load will fail.
- **graceful-stop**: Instead of everything halting immediately, any requests that are in progress are completed and, as each process is freed up, it exits. At the end, the parent process is shut down as well
- **restart**:  With a restart, the parent does not exit, but the children are killed off. Sorry, that's the actual terminology. The configuration is re-read and the children are spawned again with a new configuration. This is required for some low-level configuration changes
- **reload**:  There is also graceful which is known as reload and it's a much nicer way of starting the server. The children are given a chance to stop what they're doing, and once they're done, they're gracefully shut down. When everybody has stopped, the configuration is re-read and the children are spawned. This is needed for minor configuration changes.



```text
[root@nitin-redhat-8 ~]# apachectl start
[root@nitin-redhat-8 ~]# apachectl status
● httpd.service - The Apache HTTP Server
   Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/system/httpd.service; disabled; vendor preset: disabled)
   Active: active (running) since Sat 2021-12-18 18:14:34 UTC; 4s ago
     Docs: man:httpd.service(8)
 Main PID: 6496 (httpd)
   Status: "Started, listening on: port 80"
    Tasks: 213 (limit: 26213)
   Memory: 34.7M
   CGroup: /system.slice/httpd.service
           ├─6496 /usr/sbin/httpd -DFOREGROUND
           ├─6497 /usr/sbin/httpd -DFOREGROUND
           ├─6498 /usr/sbin/httpd -DFOREGROUND
           ├─6499 /usr/sbin/httpd -DFOREGROUND
           └─6500 /usr/sbin/httpd -DFOREGROUND

Dec 18 18:14:33 nitin-redhat-8.1 systemd[1]: Starting The Apache HTTP Server...
Dec 18 18:14:34 nitin-redhat-8.1 systemd[1]: Started The Apache HTTP Server.
Dec 18 18:14:34 nitin-redhat-8.1 httpd[6496]: Server configured, listening on: port 80

```

## Using service wrapper: 

- service httpd status -> **/bin/systemctl status httpd.service**

- service httpd stop
- service httpd start
- service httpd restart
- service httpd reload